---
dg-publish: true
aliases:
  - Values are the lighthouse of our behaviour
  - Personal values guide our behaviour
  - making authentic choices
  - authentic choice
  - authenticity
  - values guide behaviors
  - personal values
  - values
  - lighthouse
  - values determine our actions
  - principles
  - moral compass
  - truly important to me
  - truly important to us
  - authentic choices in line with our values
  - personal values
  - values are our lighthouse
  - act in accordance with values
  - Values act as our lighthouse.
  - Values are important and act as the lighthouse towards authenticity.
  - Values guide our behaviour like a lighthouse.
  - personal principles
  - true values
tags:
  - parenting
  - philosophy/values
  - philosophy/principles
  - personal
  - decision
  - psychology/behavior
  - self/identity
file-created: 2023-02-16
file-modified: 2023-09-03
note-type: 
description: 
linter-yaml-title-alias: Values are the lighthouse of our behaviour
---

# Values are the lighthouse of our behaviour

#status/done

> [!quote] The importance of values as our lighthouse
> Je compare souvent une valeur à un phare qui guide nos comportements et nos jugements. Chacune de nos valeurs reflète l'importance de quelqu'un ou de quelque chose pour nous. Elles orientent nos choix de vie et nos actions. Elles nous informent sur qui nous sommes [[Concepts of the self as said by Freud|actuellement (soi réel) et sur la personne que nous voudrions devenir plus tard (sol idéal).]]
>
> *"I often compare a value to a beacon that guides our behavior and judgments. Each of our values ​​reflects the importance of someone or something to us. They guide our choices in life and our actions. They inform us about [[Personal identity is what makes us who we are|who we are]] now (real self) and about the person we would like to become later ([[Concepts of the self as said by Freud|ideal self]]).*
>
> \- Marianne Bélanger in [[La Douance -  Comprendre Le Haut Potential Intellectuel Et Créatif by Marianne Belanger|La Douance - Comprendre Le Haut Potential Intellectuel Et Créatif]]
>

Understanding our personal values helps steer us towards making authentic choices and [[Being authentic is doing it regardless of outcome|living an authentic life]].

I often wonder - how would my [[Gia-Hien Nguyen|biological dad]] would've lived? I believe that everything is connected, so would the  [[Recognizing interconnectivity leads to worldly empathy|people I've come across in my life]] have left their own mark.

Some people may have had a positive impact, others perhaps not. Regardless, if you've interacted with them and had some kind of [[Defensive mechanisms protect our ego|emotional reaction]], then in some ways, they've left a mark on your [[Memory is processed information|memories]].

We are [[The need to belong is the root of social connection|social creatures]] and we learn by osmosis. Who we [[Spend quality time with the people you love|spend time with]] tends to shape our behaviours. As a result, one should seek to surround ourselves with the ones who make us feel loved ([[Happiness requires action]]) and can bring out our [[Love your authentic self by believing you are enough|authentic selves]] rather than [[Shame and guilt are inherited|living in personal shame]], needing to repress our behaviours.

- See also [[Discover your personal values through reflection]]
- See also [[Being authentic is doing it regardless of outcome]]
- See also [[How to best raise a potentially gifted child]]
- See also [[Getting unstuck -  How Dead Ends Become New Paths by Timothy Butler]]

## Authentic choices require introspection in difficult times

> Authentic choices are not items we choose at our leisure from a menu somebody else hands us. They have emerged of their own accord from the images, themes, and dynamic tensions generated by the hard work at [[Psychological impasse is feeling stuck|psychological impasse]].
>
> Once they have emerged, however, a tension remains; **real choices, unlike convenient options, are always in tension.**
>
> \-[[Getting unstuck -  How Dead Ends Become New Paths by Timothy Butler]]

It's important to recognize our values, sometimes they may be contradictory as we are pulled in different directions. When we are at [[Accept life transitions as a natural part of life|crossroads in life]], it can pay off to [[Introspection are deep personal reflections|look inwards]].

- See also [[Cultural roots of shame|societal pressures]]
- See also [[Major life decisions involve significant commitments]]
