---
aliases:
  - Neural spike trains
  - neural spike
  - neural action potential
tags:
  - engineering/signal-processing
  - neuroscience/neuroscience/neurons
  - neuroscience
  - mathematics
file-created: 2023-04-10
file-modified: 2023-09-02
note-type: general
description: 
linter-yaml-title-alias: Neural spike trains
---

# Neural spike trains

#status/postponed

---

> Neural spike trains are sequences of electrical signals, or action potentials, generated by neurons in response to [[Priming effects|stimuli]] or during information processing in the nervous system. These action potentials, often called "spikes" or "neural spikes," are the primary way neurons communicate with one another.
>
> A neuron generates an action potential when the sum of its incoming signals (synaptic inputs from other neurons) surpasses a specific threshold. When this threshold is reached, an electrical pulse is generated and travels along the neuron's axon to reach other connected neurons. This process is often described as an "all-or-none" event, as the amplitude and shape of the spike remain constant, regardless of the strength of the incoming signal.
>
> Neural spike trains are typically represented as binary sequences or as series of timestamps indicating when each spike occurs. The spiking activity of a neuron can be characterized by various properties, such as the firing rate (the average number of spikes per unit of time), the regularity or variability of the spike intervals (inter-spike intervals), and the temporal patterns of spikes.
>
> The study and analysis of neural spike trains are essential to understanding the neural code, which is the way information is represented, processed, and transmitted within the nervous system. Researchers often use computational methods and models to decode spike trains, identify patterns and correlations between neurons, and infer the underlying neural computations.
>
> In summary, neural spike trains are sequences of electrical signals (action potentials) generated by neurons during information processing or in response to stimuli. The study of neural spike trains is crucial to understanding how neurons communicate and represent information within the nervous system.
